---
layout: post
category : reviews
tagline: "A new technology to replace standard HDDs"
tags : [SSD, HDD]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Overview

The performance of computers is affected by all its resources like processor,
amount of memory, graphics processor and also hard disk. The upgrade to all
other resources except hard disk has already been done. The processor is now
i3, i5, i7, etc,. with a speed of more than 2.5 GHz and with at least 4 cores..
The optimum memory for a laptop is around 4 GB and for desktop it’s 8 GB which
is more than sufficient. The graphics processors by NVIDIA provide better
graphics performance and they rock well in gaming. They also have memory in
GB’s. But the hard drive is now evolving to a new form.

The technology is simple. They just use flash memory for making the hard
drives. It is the same as RAMs. But they are volatile memories. In this SSD
technology, they use NAND based flash memory which retains the stored data even
after the power is off. It makes them to be non-volatile drives.

## What is in an SSD?

<img src='http://arangamani.net/blog/assets/images/ssd/1.jpg'/>

In the picture above, you can see the chips mounted in a board. All are
light-weighted ICs which makes them more light in weight and the power
consumption is very less compared to traditional hard drives.

## Why does the hard drive affect the performance of the computer?

All the files are stored in the hard drive. If you try to open a big file, say
a pdf document, it will take a lot of time even in a higher-end computer. It’s
because of the access time. Even booting rely on the data stored in the hard
drive. If the data you want is stored in the main memory that makes your job
easier. If you are copying a big file to your hard drive or you are downloading
large data, it will affect all other running applications. So, the overall
performance is much affected by the performance of the hard drive. The speed of
the hard drive was 5400 RPM previously, now its 7200 RPM. Even now the
performance these drives can’t defeat the Solid State Drives. Also the
traditional hard drives emits lot of heat as the disk spins almost all the
time. In case of SSD, no heat at all because there isn’t any moving parts.

So, geeks decided to make the hard drive with flash memories. The set up fix
perfectly with a 2.5 inch hard drive case which are used in notebooks. It can
also be used in desktop computers.

## View of an SSD

<img src='http://arangamani.net/blog/assets/images/ssd/2.jpg'/>

In the Image above, you can see that it exactly looks like a traditional hard
drive. It has the power connectors and data cables and it is compatible with
SATA hard drives.

So, if you have a higher end laptop, you can give your laptop a new life by
just upgrading to SSD. But the proce of SSD is much costlier that traditional
hard drives. for a 64 GB hard drive, you have to spend around $130 which is
almost equal to the cost of my 2TB external hard drive :( So, the better option
would be to use the SSD only for the operating system and to store some
important and frequently used files. Use a traditional external hard drives to
store your all other files. This should work perfectly fine. I saw all video
reviews and written reviews about the performance of SSD. Your machine will
boot more than 2 times faster than previously. All your application will run
faster. Data transfer rate is around 712 Megabytes/sec for reading and 654
Megabytes/sec for writing. It took only 0.8 seconds for transferring a video
rip movie of 700 Megabytes.

I know there will be lot of questions after reading this.
Let me answer for some questions I know.

1. I have all my applications installed. I don’t want to re-install my operating
system. What can I do? Yes. there is an option for this. You can easily clone
your old hard drive and load the new SSD with the data from your old HDD. Most
SSD sellers give an application to do this hard drive cloning.

2. What do I do with my old notebook HDD? You can use your HDD as an external
hard drive. Most SSD manufacturers give a kit to use the normal SATA
notebook/desktop hard drive to use as an external hard drive.
So, nothing is wasted. going for an SSD would be a better choice for a smart
upgrade.
