---
layout: post
category : tech
tagline: "PLEAC - Programming Language Examples Alike Cookbook"
tags : [programming languages, pleac]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Coming back to blogging after a looong time :) I’ve never blogged much in the
past actually, but now trying to share some of the technical stuffs that I come
across. I always had a thought when I was a student that  scripting languages
aren’t powerful and not widely used in professional level programming. Even
while I was doing my Masters, we weren’t encouraged to write programs in
scripting languages like python, ruby, and perl. We have to strictly pick
C, C++, Java and such common languages where we have to write more code as
there aren’t some built-in functions compared to scripting languages.

Few weeks ago, I got interest in learning some of the scripting languages.
Started with Python, I slowly learned some of the concepts in other
scripting languages like Ruby and Perl. Scripting languages are really
powerful and makes the job easier when it comes to Systems Programming. In
Google, most of the system level code is written in Python. The inventor is
Python works at Google. Even though all scripting languages are similar, it
is sometime hard to remember some functionality across these scripting
languages. After I started reading about Ruby, I felt like I forgot some
concepts from Python. I googled and came across this awesome cookbook,
PLEAC – Programming Lanugage Examples Alike Cookbook. Although it is not
100% complete, it has plenty of information to study scripting languages
with comparison.

PLEAC, of sourceforge, started by following the [Perl
Cookbook](http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/cookbook) (by Tom
Christiansen & Nathan Torkington, published by O’Reilly; you can freely
browse an excerpt of the book [here](http://safari.oreilly.com/0596003137)).
The Perl Cookbook showcases some of the common programming problems solved by
the Perl programming language. PLEAC implements these problems in all other
possible scripting languages.

Access PLEAC here:
[http://pleac.sourceforge.net](http://pleac.sourceforge.net)

I think the above page has more information that I can give here. Will be
back with some other article.
